it really goes into great detail and
breakdown of this almost holistic view
of the AI landscape as a good Economist
he did a predictive analysis of the
advances in artificial intelligence
based on three primary drivers this has
big implications of what's just coming
out now of yes your business but
everything else the government's going
to go oh this is a very big deal because
we'll now have bet at this next
Awakening level the danger from AI will
come from how humans use
[Music]
it hey what's going on everybody today
is June 20 2024 and this is the daily AI
show live and today we'll be breaking
down Leopold Ashen Brunner's situational
awareness paper and there is a ton to
talk about here uh more than I knew we
had bit off when we said we were going
to do the show um I'll be I'll be the
first to admit it I just had a um not
layover but it's kind of the way it
worked out my my flight yesterday I was
in Austin uh I joined a show yesterday
from the Austin Hotel much more stable
camera today um and the I had this long
period where I was done working with my
client but it was like they were like oh
you meet us at the bar whatever blah
blah blah but then I thought it' be an
issue with my flight so I just went to
the airport but BAS basically 4 hours
then my plane got delayed because of the
weather out there in Texas so I had a
very very long self-imposed layover that
wasn't a layover but I knew that I
wanted to be prepared for today's show
so I said I will read situational
awareness cut to three hours later after
reading or four hours later after
reading every single word of it I said
oh this is a book I
misunderstood I think somebody had said
it's like 165 pages but I honestly was
thinking like oh 165 Pages not real
pages but the reality is I think this
was about as long as co-intelligence I
think it took me longer to read this
than it did Co co-intelligence um by um
almost said Eline Ethan mik um end to
end so I don't know if you guys came
into it I guess maybe we'll start there
and talk about who Leopold is and all
that but did you guys like did you
understand the the sheer volume and
breath of situational awareness before
you dug in did you already know what
you're were getting into or are you like
me and com got shocked a little bit I
didn't know how authoritative and
scholarly this work uh was and and
that's the impressive part of this and
then when you when you guys explain who
uh Leopold really is and what his
accomplishments are by the way he's 22
years old yeah okay uh and you'll hear
about his accomplishments but you know
when you put those two things together
what we're reading here is someone at
the heart of AI who is a genius
and a most accomplished scholar in this
realm from the standpoint of Economics
so that's my takeaway you know you we'll
talk about Leo a second I want to hear
what Beth and Jimmy are about to say but
you're you're Andy he says in the paper
at some point um by by sheer happen
stance or otherwise I am either order of
magnitude directly related to meaning as
in working right one order of separation
or one degree of separation away from
every person that would be probably
involved in what he calls the project
and we'll get into that in a second
that's a that's an and I know he's not
he did not come across his bragging
that's just fact that's just fact like
you said he's 22 so Beth um where did
you um what was your take before you got
into this did you did you know what you
were getting into or was this like sort
of a Shakra like it was for me so I knew
the content of what I was getting into
but no I didn't know the density
um and I did a little bit of both I did
a little bit of reading the the um the
work on the web and I uh I deep dived
into uh darar Cash's interview with him
which is four and a half hours holy crap
um so listen to us you don't have to
listen to that then you can go listen to
that because you'll want to but uh but
yeah so I I had some sense of it but um
but the depth and the scholarly
scholarliness that Andy was talking
about about yeah that was a surprise how
about you Jimmy yeah I was going to say
Jimmy and then Carl Carl joined us as
well we'll go around the horn here uh by
the way did I say Beth Jimmy Carl Andy
and I'm Brian did I say who was here
today I
just happened with today's show I was
saying this to Andy right before we went
live I said I'm nervous about this show
I'm never nervous about this show never
today I said I was nervous and he said
why I said because it's so big the ideas
the whole thing is so big that I wordy
that we're gonna somehow it's gonna
we're gonna snap our fingers 40 minutes
it's GNA go by and there'll be have no
nothing cohesive will have come out of
it just a bunch of what I feel like is a
bunch of gibberish rolling around in my
brain because I just read it yesterday
and I haven't been able to process it
but anyway Jimmy what was your take when
you first sort of got into this well
that that's a good point that you bring
up and and hopefully we can in 40
minutes I think all we can do is really
give a decent overview yeah we it the
like everyone's been saying it is very
material and uh it really goes into uh
great detail uh and a breakdown of this
almost holistic view of of the AI
landscape and so my first impressions is
I I knew it was going to be a big paper
um you know going in I didn't really
know who leop was and that was that that
was the thing that uh uh most surprised
me it's like okay so learning about the
author and learning why this is
important and why is everybody talking
about this and so that's I guess that's
the surprising part but the information
is fantastic there's also a little bit
of validation in my own thoughts going
oh okay cool a person smarter than me
and who's directly involved in uh you
know in those circles has pointed these
things out and like yes awesome uh did I
have as clear a view of everything as he
points out absolutely not very there was
plenty of information in here that was
like kind of sideswiped me a little bit
and I was so I'm glad I'm glad we're
taking this opportunity and if we're
going to do the paper Justice and do a a
proper breakdown and review we'll
probably have to do at least another
episode uh I will I will put this out
there now we don't have any plans for
this so this is like me literally
talking to you guys I only mentioned it
once in slack last night and uh Aaron
who is in Perth so he's 12 hours
difference was up right it was the next
it was today for him uh meaning it was
Thursday and I was like I don't know
Aron like I think this needs to be like
its own miniseries now we don't have any
plans for that but I legit think I we
could Branch off and go okay hold on
we're GNA keep doing our shows we're
going to keep doing interviews we're
also going to do
a one two three four five six nine part
series on situ and we could easily you
know without the constructs of how long
an episode EP should be we could just
long form break that down so if that
sounds interesting to anybody by the way
listening to this let us know um I would
totally be game I think a few of us
would so we obviously aren't going to do
that today today is more about like what
our perception was what did we get out
of it how do we think it impact business
all that because you can certainly go
and I highly recommend everybody to go
read it on their own um but before we
get there and we get into that Carl last
one um the question was I was saying
before I think you joined I was not
aware I was I was blindly ignorant to
the depth of this paper and so I didn't
really know what I was getting into I
was saying at I was at the Austin
Airport and so I had multiple hours of
nothing yesterday which was actually
turned out to be perfect because I could
just sit down and read this word for
word I did not use a perplexity I didn't
use a chap GPT I old schooled it right I
started at at the first word and I read
it to the end to the last word and took
my time with it and took breaks and
walked around the airport as I thought
about had my in internal monologue so
did you know what you were sort of
getting into as you as you got this what
was your what was your perception before
like preparing for this particular show
uh so I remember I watched uh Leopold's
interview a couple times um like the
there's like short Snippets but then the
longer one so I watched that and then
then I un like you I use perplexity to
like okay just give me the I need the
gist of this yeah and then but for me I
I looked at um the individual parts that
kind of jumped out of me and it was more
about National Security and it becomes a
race and it's funny because of what Elia
sisk's new super intelligence Inc
yesterday right it's like he just
started that and I remember one of the
points was you know we'll have super
intelligence it depends on I guess the
definition of what super intelligence
will mean by 2025
2026 although you do say it's like AGI
will be coming at the end of the decade
so obviously I think Super intelligence
is different than AGI although I would
think it's reversed where super
intelligence would be things that are
way smarter than than human intelligence
so but the the the National Security one
was was more of like obviously the the
Hot Topic um that kind of got me it's
like are we
competing and I know I don't know nian
politics but American Poli ICS it's such
an easy I know the lobbyists are going
to use this um example and they're just
going to say well if you do any type of
Regulation no China's not going to do it
Russia's not going to do it so why would
we want
to slow slow the pace at all I think
that's enough for 60 70% of the
politicians in in Washington to be like
yeah we'll token regulation it get some
executive orders there yeah we'll meet
some people will talk but no it's there
I I just don't think that especially if
what I think if one politician actually
gets in and that argument comes to fold
I was like no this thing is going full
steam ahead and I think like everything
is going to go as fast as they can um
and we just don't know what the other
countries are doing and then sorry to
the EU who you know put out the Europe
like the the their act I was like it the
the meme and the jokes are going to be
true you've just out reg you've
regulated yourself out of the
race might as well sit in the sidelines
and cheer for whoever wins I guess and I
think that's a good pivot real quick
because we didn't really introduce
Leopold a little bit Andy uh you could
probably add some more here as well or
anybody else in the background for him
but I threw his his picture up on the
screen if you want to see what he looks
like as Andy mentioned he's 22 years old
I believe uh at the beginning of the
podcast that uh the uh the host said
that he graduated valedictorian at 19 at
Colombia I think I'm right on that one
so clearly no slouch um he has also
started a um a uh investment firm I
believe it is I found it an investment
firm correct focused on AGI it's called
for our prosperity and that's actually a
website that he has I have it up on the
screen right now so for our prosperity
uh.com uh with other uh anchor
investments from Patrick Coulson John
Coulson Nat Freeman and Daniel gross he
talks about before that he worked at
open at open Ai and the super alignment
team which now has been dissolved and
there's a lot of news about that um he
says in a past life I did research on a
economic growth at Oxford's Global PRI
uh priorities Institute oh here it is I
graduated as a valorian from Columbia at
age 19 sorry I thought that was on
different page I originally hail from
Germany and now live in the Great city
of San Francisco California my
aspiration is to secure the blessings of
liberty for our prosperity I'm
interested in a pretty eclectic mix of
things from First Amendment law to
German history to uh topology though I
though I'm pretty focused on AI these
days which I think is a is a nice fun
understatement to start the conversation
and if you want to see kind of like what
he has on his which is a much on
LinkedIn he's definitely much more uh on
Twitter or X if you want to go follow
him him that's where you're G to find a
lot more of his content as well as um
you know the podcast and things like
that um but you can see a little bit of
his background here as well from
research affiliate and future funds and
things like that again he's not that old
so most of this is from only several
years back um which is really really
interesting so I wanted to share that
first just so we had a kind of idea of
like who are we talking about um I think
the first question I had in addition to
that so the the part of him that does
not show up in his
CV is that in that his parents that the
the uh World War II was was um fairly
close for him the effects of World War
II which is Again part of this
perspective that he's bringing to it uh
his parents are from uh East Germany and
West Germany right so like they lived in
that and his grandmother who raised him
for a little while um was uh alive
during Nazi Germany right so so um and
then uh Germany handles their past uh a
little more directly than than the US
handles our past so they're a little
more informed about things that have
happened in their more immediate past um
so that is also a piece that comes into
this that isn't reflected in his
accomplishments I just want to highlight
that I think that's a that's a huge call
I didn't really realize that as much but
now I'm I'm so glad you said that Beth
because now it makes me even this is
great right because this makes me even
see it through even a slightly different
lens he talks a lot he most talks about
China but he talks about like let's call
it our uh our access our um Access of
Evil what was it bush used to call it
the Access of Evil certain people were
on that list of whatever their Iran and
China and North Korea and so on and so
forth and you know politically whoever
you decide or not decide to put on the
list the point is clear which is you
know a big part of this situation
awareness and what I was going to say
about what Carl said is situation
awareness is just what Carl was saying
or any part the term comes
from there's only so many people that he
feels and his reasoning for writing this
paper who have actual situational where
is in fact understand the the the
complexity and the the how vast this
potential AI can be right where it's
going to it also Jimmy you brought this
up and I think it's something we should
definitely talk about is I will I will
tell you I because maybe because of
mainstream media because of whatever
I sort of r view this AGI this as this
angle and I will tell you that one of
the biggest things I brought out of this
paper is that AGI however you might want
to Define that and there's several
different ways to do
that is really just like a stepping
stone towards this larger super
intelligence and then AGI even when he's
like oh AGI potentially if you just
follow the charts if you follow the
graphs and the extrapolation that's
where his 2027 prediction comes out to
and he's like I'm not that's not a leap
I'm literally just looking at where our
order of magnitudes and he talks a lot
about that in there you know I'm just
looking at where we came from gbt 2 to
four and saying hey if we're at four
this is where I think we can be if we
were to get to 2027 right but it's just
this idea that he doesn't stop at AGI
it's like oh we have AGI No in fact he's
talking about hundreds if not thousands
of orders of intelligence or maybe
orders of but times intelligence above
and beyond that which is really really
mind opening for me about where this
potentially is going to go and in fact
in the paper you know it's a situational
awareness the decade ahead so you can
kind of see where he's looking at he's
looking at the next 10 years he's
looking at the 2030s and saying
that fundamentally everything will be
will be different than what we know
today um anyway that was a big opener
for me obviously a lot about the the
national what I want to get to um yeah
let me throw it back over to you guys
because honestly this is my problem I
don't even know where to start with this
really there's so much different ideas
in here but the AI one was definitely
one that was eye opening for sure yeah
you talk about this um when when you're
talking about Beyond AGI and he's
talking about that intelligence
explosion otherwise sometimes called
Singularity and this is where we skirt
some of the science fiction and he makes
a point that in this next 10 years it's
not Science Fiction it's completely PL
and and that's I think I think that's a
good place to view what he's talking
about as it this is not this isn't the
far-flung Future these Concepts and what
potentially he sees us coming out in the
next few years is that's reality follow
the data like you said right follow
those charts and so I think if anything
right and calls it situational awareness
it's you know appropo it
the the overall intent of the paper or
the the the essence that I got was here
is here is all the data that you need
here's all the information uh you need
to help inform you of these extreme
large changes that are going to be
happening right and whether it's
positive or negative is how we approach
it and that's what I get that's what I
take uh overall take from this paper is
hey the if you're not aware of these
things look at this and here is the
information that supports you know my
conclusions so start thinking start
paying attention start being
aware and just to just to add on to that
so we're talking about Leopold's paper
um in mid April darios amay of anthropic
did a uh did a podcast uh interview with
asra Klein Ezra Klein interviewed Daria
s uh and there and he made very similar
predictions in terms of the timeline
that we're looking at in that scaling
right so so half an order of magnitude
about every six months in terms of leap
in ability and also in terms of leap of
cost and compute needed um so uh so
those things are are married right so if
if you're going to LEAP you then need uh
instead of one gwatt or H sorry they
talk about gigawatts and uh and dollars
and I don't have the perfect math
between them but uh but 10 gws is uh is
decent uh and a doable 100 gws is maybe
uh more uh needs more intention to be
able to do it and those are the next
series of things but what struck me
about this was that Dar darus amade
actually
um is also seeing the the is seem to be
in agreement about the most
immediate um next levels that we're
going to hit and then they d uh they
diverge in what that means right what
are going to be the next things that are
going to happen in relation to that and
Dario sad said uh like took a sort of
backseat in some ways and said uh I'm
right like I'm not going to try to
predict that and Leopold is like sure
I'm totally to try to predict that
because it's important for us to have um
some concrete things and importantly he
he says surely towards the end of the
paper he says look I I clearly will miss
on many different parts of this I am not
saying this is absolute or that I
believe this is the only path he talks
at at length about the roadblocks ahead
from all different angles um most of the
time he's an optimist he says he's an
optimist you know and that he thinks
basic on what he knows his experience
which is extremely valuable in both
being in San Francisco he talks often
about the San Francisco parties and how
much information is transferred there
that's a whole other conversation but
just if you're in the conversations if
you're know like he's just talking about
the perspective he has but also
obviously saying look there's there are
several roadblocks he's just optimistic
that because of compute because of ai's
ability to help itself get to the next
level that he the way I understand it
this is my perception is that yes we're
going to run into these roadblocks yes
we might run out of data but there might
be Solutions there with synthetic data
that make it very possible then AI will
have a part to play in that so it's
almost like oh AI is g to we we can
reasonably see the next 12 months or 24
months that we feel a lot we find a lot
more comfortable about and that will
have a rolling effect as it has to
unlock what we need to get to that next
step and I I saw that theme a lot in
this paper was sure we're going to run
into this most likely but at that time
our comput abilities our efficiencies
and algorithms and so on and so forth
will be also at this level we're not
going to stop and have today's abilities
24 months from now so what is that ack
for us does that allow us to now get
past it and I I you know it was a very
compelling argument whether you believe
it or not or you have a there's many
people have different opinions of it I'm
not like all in on this camp but to
Indy's point I thought it was very very
well
written and it stopped short of any
absolutes or anything it makes a lot of
comparisons and talks a lot about the
Manhattan Project um and towards the
back end of the paper uh chapter or part
let's call it uh three I'm sorry four
part four it's called the project and I
hly didn't know what that was until he
talked about it but basically what his
point was
is I'll try to summarize this and then
you guys correct me where you think I
messed this up but in very short
form like startups are great at what
startups do and and they can do things
that are un untangled by government and
things like that and a lot of the
advancements in AI probably do need to
start in the the startup world because
of their abilities and and how quickly
they can evolve and stuff
however he sees us as moving quickly to
a 2027 2028 2029 time frame where what
he's worried about is the government's
going to go oh this is a very big deal
because we'll now have bet at this next
Awakening level and the government's
going to get scared and say okay hold on
we need a Manhattan Project level of
security and safety and security be or
and um and security for
National aware National Protection right
and get what might be done and the point
he brings up is hey whoever was just
saying Carl was saying I think hey China
ain't gonna care about you know
environmental regulations if it means
the race to a trillion dollar cluster
and China's like what do we have to you
know coal mining and fracking and and
how many people it takes to get there
great and what he's worried about is
that right now in San Francisco this
stuff is being traded freely and so when
you get to a point of the of the the
weights that are necessary at a
superintelligent or AGI you do not China
or some other actor does not have to go
through all the work they just need the
the weights of the model so if they have
built the infrastructure if they have
the compute ability and were basically a
Civ us and the EU and everybody else
we're just freely giving it out there
and China already knows it China doesn't
have to do and build and go through all
the steps they can simply wait get the
information because it's not bogged down
by security and safety regulations like
a Manhattan Project and simply implement
the weights on the back end and they
will have already beaten us on the
infrastructure side do you guys did do
you feel like I got that close that's
how I ran one thing that's funny is is
that when you when you mention all that
stuff the first person I keep thinking
about is Yan laon and he's like none of
that matters because none of the things
that we're going to be producing is
going to be smart enough or Advanced
enough to do anything crazy that we're
planning to do and I would I'm assuming
that he would think leupold's paper and
so on it's
like again back to always his points
like you're not g to we're not going to
be
AI is not going to be llms or anything
that we have now is not going to be even
remotely as dangerous only as dangerous
as we make it if we had overtly try to
make it that way and so when Leupold
says the Manhattan Project Lon says yeah
you're crazy that's like yeah yes you
were talking not even splitting the atom
like I think it's it's very interesting
where those two camps are at and what
one would think versus one would you
know like would you say that Leopold
would be a Doomer and like try and I
don't think he is but then I think he's
trying to advocate for something else
but again the view is oh AI is is
inherently dangerous versus Yan's like
it's not so so so I think there thanks
Carl so so in terms of Leopold saying
that AI Leopold isn't saying that AI is
inherently dangerous like actually he
and Yan Lon are saying the same thing
that the danger from AI will come from
how humans use it Yan laon is just
saying I'm not sure humans are going to
use that it that way and Leupold is like
I think we should talk about it like
it's a definite
possibility um that's a bad
interpretation of that right yeah no I
agree with we shouldn't wait to figure
out like we shouldn't wait to get to a
point where is
serious he he's actually saying hey I
think we have a brief period here he
calls it the middle ground or the middle
something I can't remember the term he
uses this this middle period where we're
not quite there we're not at 27 28
29 but we can
reasonably predict based on current
trends and patterns on compute and
algorithmic efficiencies and other
things that he clearly points out there
to say should we wait to wake up in 27
28 or 29 or should we be sounding the
alarm today to say hey maybe we want to
put just a little bit more security I
don't think we're talking building the
the base in the desert you know if you
watched Oppenheimer and saw that whole
story yet but I definitely agree with
him that maybe we shouldn't be talking
at bro parties in San Francisco and
freely talking about about the things
that are happening and is akin to
putting a USB drive into a computer to
to take the information that's necessary
and his point it doesn't even matter
right now because any of the Bad actors
already have all of it just assume it's
an open conversation web at this point
and listen I have to agree with that why
would we want to wait two three four
years to figure out this is something we
should have started taking seriously
three years ago meaning today so who who
is going to be talking about it though
like that's the thing is like if you
talk to any politician they're barely up
to speed on what half of what exactly
people know so so even if you even if
he's raising it right now who is going
to take that mantle up I I think it was
a uh I can't remember which podcast it
was could be Paul rater's one where
they're talking about like you know the
I think it was like what was that 1967
something about going to the the moon
and and the government's put so much
money into it and it's like everybody
like few people think that that's where
the situation is now but I don't think
you're going to get that type
of backing I I just don't see government
be like yeah I'm going to put seven
trillion or two trillion dollars into AI
that would be in in right now and even
even if you have a political environment
that was in lock step it'd be very very
difficult to pass something a bill that
is outside of Defense so unless you feed
it into defense which he for some right
outside of the
V yeah I don't see any reason why you
like the the American government and the
people would stomach that much into a
technology that half the people don't
even get don't even use don't even
understand and just like are putting
their head down on it this very
difficult th that's the point right the
point is they not they're not aware and
I think that I think this paper is his
attempt to at least start that
conversation and you know we are in the
uh business of AI awareness right AI
literacy so us Carl it's us it's all on
us Carl you're you represent all of
Canada we represent uh all of the United
States it willon matter I don't get
anything anyway so what what I talk
about oh we do we we don't get we'll get
seven months like okay well thanks
fantastic well so like comparing it to
the Manhattan Project the Manhattan
Project wasn't like a fully informed
authorization from all of
Congress right like yeah but you blew up
like once something blew like I think
like but there was a war that preceded
it there was a reason why it actually
people were actually creating it it
wasn't just like oh well well we're
going to start doing this it's like well
no how do we win the war against Japan
how do we win the war like wasn't that
the impetus to actually get something
moving not hey it's a bunch of research
let you know we want to do this and we
want to benefit Humanity no we want to
destroy people so we can win the war so
we don't have a World War anymore or we
don't or we don't have to fight you know
you know people dying that's a good
point because a lot of a lot of the
steps that we've taken in in the last
few decades or or maybe even longer is
is very reactionary so I I think this
section about security is kind of a
warning of yeah don't react be proactive
otherwise yes you'll be cleaning up uh
you know problems down the line I I do
feel the way to wake people up would be
like something like
like even Rob right now there's not very
much that surprises people it's like oh
you build a robot that can speak no okay
fine that's fine like it would have to
be something like so I don't know I
don't know if you've ever watched a
member of The Watchmen but not the movie
the comics where they faked an alien
attack so the world would come together
or like the villain did I feel it would
require that level of of of of
catastrophic or some crazy thing to
bring people be like wait a minute we
gota pay attention to this like it's not
just about AI girlfriends anymore it's
like oh shoot this stuff is like legit
right it affects the daily life yeah it
has to affect anything we talk about
because and it's terrible because then
you see like people like using it for
stupid things and you're
like he he makes a good point and I I I
want to say this real briefly because I
want to get Andy I really love to hear
your your thoughts on all this but he
makes a really good point of saying that
a huge misstep would be to believe that
GPT 5 and intern name there is somehow
some version of gp4 or whatever that
next step is that that is absolutely the
wrong way to think about it so it's
tough because we only know what we know
we only know what our experiences are
and so there's a happy ignorance there
that goes along with it we go wow this
AI stuff this generative AI as I was
talking about yesterday at the client um
in Austin is is pretty amazing and it
can do this this and this and so as a
human you go okay I reasonably
understand that it can get better at
writing and that that for any business
or anybody who's who's limiting their
beliefs of where this will go to that is
is a serious misstep
because forget about all the stuff he
talks about about the intelligence and
and the safety and stuff if you're just
a business today and you believe that in
in 20 in three years you know in
2027 that somehow you will just have a
smarter version of today's AI running
around and impacting your business and
your Roi that is a misstep that is a
huge misstep and so I just want to put
that out there that I I do agree with
that and that is absolutely the wrong
way and hopefully this show over all of
our episodes over the years will help
people realize that but that is a
misstep to believe that it's in some
like
traditional growth of it's this smart
today it'll be that smart tomorrow we're
talking about o orders of magnitude and
so things are going to LEAP quickly in
three years regardless of whether AGI
happens or we Define it as such or super
intelligence forget about all that just
where will we be in three years and if
you're running a business that's a very
short period of time we're talking about
36 months of running a business I I
think like so I'll give you an example
yesterday I showed somebody uh gbt 4
like just the demo of when I was in
France we recorded the demo I showed
that person and I said can you I I need
you to think about your business and I
want you to think about what this means
of something that has memory connected
to your data can see can hear can you
can speak to it in real time but also
take actions for you and I was
like not to you know think about like
what can you do with this thing and it's
like the person's like that can replace
this this this I was like that's where
you went and I didn't prompt you at it
you just went there so this has big
implications of what's just coming out
now of yes your business but everything
else and I think it's just like the the
realization that you could do with that
because you could see that I could I was
looking at her eye dilate and like and I
can see like wait a second
and just like wait a minute yeah I can
do this this this like yes you I can do
this this this yeah everybody will have
accesses like like you can get excellent
I'll probably be getting this within a
month or I don't know whenever they
release this thing but and then every
single tool will allow you to do this
they're not just gonna every single
company will enable this type of
activity and more activities after that
so like and I think like once but we
need Mass realization of that just that
alone what that means for for people and
I think like that's but it's a hard
thing because unless you actually show
it and explain it in a way that's like
related to them no one's going to get
that you can show them all the demos it
won't really matter but it's like oh
wait a minute it's got to be it's got to
be yeah what's in it for me yep yeah
it's got to be like how does this impact
me and my job whatever and oh okay it's
over there in art okay well that's not
me I don't do that you're like yeah it's
running ravage through that
job and you're like it will be it's not
there today it will be you know so yeah
Andy I you've been silent most of this
time but I would love to hear your
thoughts on this well I was I was
excited to hear all of the energetic
discussion around the implications of
what Leupold presented let me summarize
what he did so as a good Economist he
did a predictive analysis based on uh a
predictive analysis of the advances in
artificial intelligence based on three
primary drivers one increases in
physical compute capacity huge
Investments being made by multiple
Nations to to drive the processing of AI
the second is algorithmic improvements
think of that as the the changes to the
models changes to the math changes to
approaches and then more importantly a a
a a third factor that he calls un
hobbling and I'm going to just describe
that as okay right now we have hobbled
AIS they're kind of siloed in their own
little areas and they're focused on
single tasks like generating text well
when you add memory to an AI and then
give it Chain of Thought kind of
reasoning capabilities you provide it
with persistence like that is the the
objective Pursuit like I'm going to
persist in following all of the things
that I have to do in order to get to a
goal and give it agency so it can act in
the
world and then you gang multiple models
together what you get to very quickly is
a gang of models that can think through
problems use tools try different
approaches do research revise its work
coordinate with others and complete big
projects on their own that combination
of capabilities is Agi that's artificial
general intelligence it's like imitating
all the human capabilities that are
currently offered by remote workers so
like just plug in an AI that can do
anything that a remote worker can do as
a human and there but do it with
superhuman speed and Mastery that's
artificial general intelligence but what
comes after that because of the
interconnection of these AGI capable
systems is this intelligence explosion
so now I just wanted to kind of close
out I think I just want to read this is
from Leopold's actual language here he
says
superintelligence is AI systems vastly
smarter than humans capable of Novel
creative complicated Behavior we can't
begin to understand perhaps even a small
civilization of billions of
agis the power would be vast too
applying super intelligence to r& D and
Fields like ml research that solving
robotics making dramatic leaps across
other fields of Science and Technology
within years and an industrial explosion
would be attendant to that it would also
superintelligence this explosion like
Singularity is a term that's been used
previously for this thanks Beth would
likely provide a decisive military
advantage and unfold Untold powers of
destru Destruction so he there it leads
into what you guys have been discussing
which is the Strategic importance of
aligning that super intelligence with
human objectives and by the way Leopold
at Colombia in addition to all of his
academic Pursuits founded the Colombia
effective altruism student group
altruism is literally caring right he's
this is a caring Soul brilliant mind
focused on steering Advanced AI
development and addressing long-term
impact of that glad he's here I'm going
to follow him carefully now I didn't I
didn't really know much about him until
this paper was released yeah he wasn't
on my radar U you know I I think he's on
a lot of people's radar now and
hopefully he's he's on a lot of people's
radar because he's say sounded alarm
that sounds that sounds a lot um but I
agree with you there was there's so many
different charts in here that he talks
about about order is the magnitude of
where we're going but one of them that
really stuck out to me that I just want
to talk about really quickly was his
number of tokens and so he comes up with
a idea of assuming that a human thinking
at roughly 100 tokens per minute and
working 40 hours a week in fact let me
just pull it up on the screen here it's
a really interesting chart because he's
he's trying to give a a clear a Clear
Vision of what we're talking about when
we talk about the ability of like uh
superintelligent or compute power so
he's saying basically that at the at the
top of the chart here he says number of
tokens hundreds equivalent to me working
on something for and in this case a few
minutes and he's like that's chaa we're
here right now that's the first thing he
says then it goes to thousands 10
thousands hundreds of thousands millions
of tokens and as you work your way
through this list he tells you what that
order of magnitude increase is so if we
go all the way to the bottom he says
millions of tokens is the equivalent of
him working on some for multiple months
now the reason I want to bring this up
is because I think this brings it back
to what I would feel like I want to
leave everybody with because we do try
to focus on the business yes we can talk
about security yes we have a lot of
other conversations on this but
ultimately what we've always hope for is
that business people are listening to
this and going okay what is in it for me
why should I care about this and I think
what what I get out of reading this
among many many other insights is
were in in a short period of time what I
feel is
very likely to happen is you talked
about it Andy our context windows are
very short right now when you ask a
chatab BT to do something it has more
than likely no prior knowledge it exists
in that moment it's a very smart high
schooler whatever label you want to put
on it at that point and that's sort of
where it ends and of course we have
windows and we can go back but all that
gets very fuzzy as he points out we're
moving quickly towards a place with
business and this is my main point to
this
where if I was going to give a business
one piece of advice today you know I
would say clean your house get your data
in order but what even more important to
that I would say is save all of your
transcripts save all the conversations
you have even if you don't know what to
do with it today save it label it put
data governance on it all that house and
order stuff as well here's my reasoning
for it because if Leupold is is is
predicting the the very near future here
every business will not just be able to
have a chat BT that can help them
through today's today's problem and help
them foresee or make a predict the
future it would be the equivalent of a
of a chat BT or thousands of chat BTS
going away for multiple months with all
of your data from your company and then
coming to you and saying I've been
thinking about this hard me and my
thousand friends who are all smarter
than a human have all collectively been
thinking about this very hard and this
is what we've come up with based on your
business or whatever given that we have
immediate context everything that's
happening now you can consider that to
be a great thing in your business or you
consider that to be a a negative I
understand both sides of it but if I'm a
business that's where I want people to
focus is you may not know what to do
today and I can't tell you for certainty
what will happen but I can tell you that
if you are organizing and saving what
you have today the data in multiple
multi multimodal audio video visual
whatever all of
it that's what you need because very
soon they're going to be models capable
of looking deep months years deep into
that data and being able to assist
businesses that's how you will get ahead
that's to me how you will get ahead in
business because guess what everybody
else will be doing waiting for 2028 to
come around or whatever that for that
date is in the future and they're going
to say oh holy crap did you know it
could do this we should start Gathering
our data and the and the Smart Ones are
going to say we've been Gathering our
data and we are ready to launch with
whatever that business is that's how you
protect yourself in the future of AI in
my opinion that's what I get so so uh we
just want to acknowledge the people
whose minds are blown uh such as Cisco
thank you very much um and uh and we've
got your back we will continue to be
talking about these subjects and doing
the Deep Dives so that uh so that you
can do the shallow Dives with
us yes we will definitely get into this
more I think Cisco also said uh maybe
like a three-part series or something
like that which I think would be super
cool thank you for the feedback on that
who knows maybe we will let's see what
the feedback is and how what the
reception is to this particular show and
uh we can always pivot from uh there
tomorrow we actually do have an
opportunity to bring up more of this
should we decide to um because it's our
two week wrap-up show or not wrap-up
that's the wrong word for it's a recap
show um where we're talking about all
the topics that came up over the last
two weeks on our show from our news
shows to all the individual uh show
topics along the way it's always a great
time because it sort of opens the the
floor to all sorts of different ways and
I always love hearing where people are
like you know what I want to talk about
you know um this is on my mind I'll try
to keep this mostly at tomorrow um but
like all the different topics and where
it sort of come back into our lives so
it's always a really interesting show um
and so come on back tomorrow to uh hear
more and of course all next week we
will'll have lots more AI topics along
the way so this has been the da show
make sure you go to the Daily eyes
show.com especially if you want to get
on our newsletter list this Sunday will
be issue number three um we are always
putting additional information into the
newsletter that you cannot get on the
live show so it's a great reason for you
to go ahead and sign up and of course if
you go to the Daily show.com you can get
access to all our past you know episodes
and live episodes and all the good stuff
is there there's links to all of it so
it's a One-Stop shop for you okay that's
it for today thanks guys for the great
conversation and we will see you uh
tomorrow for our two week uh wrapup or
not wrap-up why do I keep calling a
wrap-up show all right we'll see you
tomorrow bye